1) List the commands for adding, updating, and deleting data.

A: DELETE, UPDATE, INSERT INFO.

2) Explain the structure for each type of command.

A: You say the command first then the table followed by the columns and VALUES that you want to add with INSERT INFO. Update is similar you use UPDATE followed by the table name then you SET what you want changed and WHERE to find it. DELETE is similar as you follow the command with the table name followed by a WHERE command so it knows what to delete.

3) What are some of the data types that can be used in tables? Give a real-world example of each type.

A: A bank transaction would have a text for the description of the transaction, numeric for the amount and date for the date of the transaction.

4) Decide how to create a new table to hold a list of people invited to a wedding dinner. The table needs to have first and last names, whether they sent in their RSVP, the number of guests they are bringing, and the number of meals (1 for adults and 1/2 for children).

Which data type would you use to store each of the following pieces of information?
First and last name. - text
Whether they sent in their RSVP. - boolean
Number of guests. - integer
Number of meals. - integer

Write a command that creates the table to track the wedding dinner.
CREATE TABLE weddingdinner (
  First and last name text,
  RSVP boolean,
  Number of guests integer,
  Number of meals numeric(1, 1),
);
Write a command that adds a column to track whether the guest sent a thank you card.
ALTER TABLE weddingdinner ADD COLUMN thank you card boolean;

You have decided to move the data about the meals to another table, so write a command to remove the column storing the number meals from the wedding table.
ALTER TABLE weddingdinner DROP COLUMN Number of meals;

The guests will need a place to sit at the reception, so write a command that adds a column for table number.
ALTER TABLE weddingdinner ADD COLUMN table number integer;

The wedding is over and we do not need to keep this information, so write a command that deletes the table numbers from the database.
ALTER TABLE weddingdinner DROP COLUMN table number;

5) Write a command to create a new table to hold the books in a library with the columns ISBN, title, author, genre, publishing date, number of copies, and available copies.
CREATE TABLE books (
  ISBN bigint,
  title text,
  author text,
  genre text,
  publishing date date,
  number of copies integer,
  available copies integer,
);
Find three books and add their information to the table.
INSERT INFO books (ISBN, title, author, genre, publishing date, number of copies, available copies)
VALUES
(0393354776, 'The Undoing Project: A Friendship That Changed Our Minds', 'Michael Lewis', 'Biography', 12/6/2016, 1, 1),
(9780735201446, 'Trading In The Zone', 'Mark Douglas', 'Finance', 01/01/2001, 1, 1),
(0470529407, 'One Good Trade', 'Mike Bellafiore', 'Finance', 07/02/2010, 1, 1);
Someone has just checked out one of the books. Change the number of available copies to 1 fewer.
UPDATE books SET available copies=0 WHERE ISBN=0470529407;

Now one of the books has been added to the banned books list. Remove it from the table.
DELETE FROM books WHERE ISBN=0470529407;

6) Write a command to make a new table to hold spacecrafts. Information should include id, name, year launched, country of origin, a brief description of the mission, orbiting body, if it is currently operating, and its approximate miles from Earth. In addition to the table creation, provide commands that perform the following operations:
CREATE TABLE spacecrafts (
  id integer,
  name text,
  year launched integer,
  country of origin text,
  mission description text,
  orbiting body text,
  operating boolean,
  miles from Earth integer,
);

Add three non-Earth-orbiting satellites to the table.
INSERT INFO spacecrafts (id, name, year launched, country of origin, mission description, orbiting body, operating, miles from Earth)
VALUES
(0, 'Akatsuki', 2010, 'Japan', 'Collect climate data from Venus', 'Venus', True, 100),
(1, 'Mars Odyssey', 2001, 'USA', 'Detect past or present water and ice', 'Mars', True, 75),
(2, 'Mangalyaan', 2013, 'India', 'Collect data about Mars', 'Mars', True, 75);

Remove one of the satellites from the table since it has just crashed into the planet.
DELETE FROM spacecrafts WHERE id = 0;

Edit another satellite because it is no longer operating and change the value to reflect that.
UPDATE spacecrafts SET operating = False WHERE id = 1;

7) Write a command to create a new table to hold the emails in your inbox. This table should include an id, the subject line, the sender, any additional recipients, the body of the email, the timestamp, whether or not you have read the email, and the id of the email chain it's in. Also provide commands that perform the following operations:
CREATE TABLE emails (
  id integer,
  subject line text,
  sender text,
  other recipients text,
  body text,
  timestamp timestamp,
  read boolean,
  id of chain integer,
);
Add three new emails to the inbox.
INSERT INFO emails (id, subject line, sender, other recipients, body, timestamp, read, id of chain)
VALUES
(0, 'Hey there', 'John Frank', 'Joe Bob', 'How are you', 01/01/2001 12:30:01, False, 01),
(1, 'What is this', 'Rodrigo', 'NA', 'What', 02/02/2002 12:35:05, False, 05),
(2, 'Where', 'Robson', 'NA', 'Where is this', 03/03/2007 05:45:02, True, 07);

You deleted one of the emails, so write a command to remove the row from the inbox table.
DELETE FROM emails WHERE id = 0;

You started reading an email but just heard a crash in another room. Mark the email as unread before investigating the crash, so you can come back and read it later.
UPDATE emails SET read = False WHERE id = 2;
